Crypto talk and blockchain walk with
Felipe.
>> What's up, Felipe?
>> How's it going, brother?
>> Dude, I'm doing good. Uh, first of all,
let's just like get this out of the way.
Where did we meet?
>> We met in Buenocitis. We met in
Buenocitis during Dev Connect. Uh,
through a mutual friend, Brian.
>> Shout out Esmokes.
>> Great guy, great developer,
>> fantastic dude,
>> great founder. Um,
>> great energy.
>> Yeah,
>> We miss you, bro. We miss you.
>> Yeah. Um but yeah, uh we met through him
and uh we kick it off in Benley uh
through 100%. Hung out a bunch actually.
>> Yeah,
>> we did a little uh day touring together,
too.
>> We did. We did. Uh it was it was the
best third wheel date I've ever had, you
know.
>> That's right. My girlfriend was down
there.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Awesome. Um I guess what was like the
vibe of the industry in November and how
much have we come in the past seven
years? I mean four months.
Um, I guess it was a bit more frothier
uh back then, you know. You think so?
>> Yeah. You people were still skeptical.
People were uh worried, but you know, it
didn't crash as much as it did right
now.
>> But um
>> 1010 still hadn't happened yet, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> But you know, it's good because you see
the people now like ETE obviously feels
way more
>> um empty.
>> But it's good. It's good because you see
the people who are actually uh building.
you see the people who are not, you
know, looking for a quick cash grab. And
I think that's a good thing. The
industry in general, I think, has been
maturing over the past years.
>> Um, and specifically, they're not like
the projects that are making more and
more sense are the ones that have
product market fit. You know, they're
not looking to give you the highest
yield, but more than anything, the
lowest risk, which is a structural
problem within the industry.
>> So things DeFi is getting boring in a
good way, you know. So I think that's
what's that's what you're seeing uh you
know at the projects being built around
here. They're getting boring in a good
sense where they're becoming more
robust.
>> So I like it like I think it's good.
It's a it's a green signal for me.
>> Are you having a lot of like high value
conversations with the folks that you
meet here?
>> Absolutely. So um what gives me a lot of
confidence in in the industry in general
is the people you meet because uh you
see people who have their head very well
placed you know above their shoulders.
Uh they're not looking for a quick cash
grab and they're really looking to have
a a solid product which I think is more
important now than ever.
>> Is this your first ETH Denver?
>> No, it's actually my second.
>> Woo. When did you come last? Last year.
>> Last year. Last year. Last year was a
fun Eth.
>> You thought it was fun?
>> I thought it was a lot of fun.
>> I'm old enough to remember when Eth was
in a different location
>> and people weren't complaining that too
many people came.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. Did you feel last year that we
were still kind of a little frothy and
that there were too many people?
>> 100%.
>> Brother, like there was just some
projects that just made no sense and
they slapped you know AI agents
somewhere around the project just to get
some hype around it. But fundamentally
the products that they were building did
not make sense. Uh they weren't catering
to any they were a solution and looking
and search for a problem. It was just a
bunch of projects saying, "Hey, man,
love we need to give you AI agents to
decentralize, you know, baristas and
it's it just it it did not make any
sense at all."
>> So, I think that I went to ETH Boulder
before this, which was like an even
smaller kind of like local meetup, and
it was like the cracked devs of the
Ethereum community that live here in
Colorado. And the large kind of
narrative that came out of that was that
AI agents are important, but not even
because like, oh, AI is like the next
thing. It was almost like if you're not
building with AI today, you're getting
left behind and they couldn't help but
talk about it. It was all that was at
the top of their mind because they're
deploying agents. It's replacing their
junior level employees. So, like, are
you getting that vibe here? Are you
getting that sense of importance from
the people that you're talking with here
that they that AI has like seeped into a
place where we have to start using it?
>> Absolutely. But it's not a bad thing. I
I I I think people uh they fret too much
on the inevitable. And uh for example,
if you're a junior dev, you know, you
might think that everything's doom and
gloom and that you're destroy your, you
know, your career is destroyed, but it's
not the truth. Like now more than ever,
you can build something, right?
>> Uh you know, you don't need to hire 10
people. You can just build something
fairly quickly. Get an MVP, you know,
that you can showcase. Um for example,
you know,
>> if you go back 15 years ago, the
valuations on startups were insane. And
the reason why is because you needed to
hire a whole team to actually build the
product. You know, you couldn't uh just,
you know, v code something into into
fruition. You needed to actually hire a
bunch of people. Um and if you didn't
have that money, then guess what? Your
project's not getting built.
>> So now more than ever, uh you can build
stuff quicker, which means that VCs are
also going to be looking for a little
something more tangible than a dollar in
a dream. M
>> you know they're looking for at least
some sort of validation that people are
interested in this product. So in that
sense uh um I think AI as a tool has
become more important. Um it is
inevitable in the sense that either if
you're not using you're getting left
behind just from a cost perspective. If
you're not using it to you know uh um
substitute a couple of junior engineers
then you're just not going to make it
>> right.
>> Yeah.
>> All right cool. Um, if you were going to
be launching a new like crypto product
in today's market, what's like the the
vertical that would be of interest?
DeFi, NFTTS, some sort of like stable
yielding solution, some sort of L2,
there's so many GameFi, decentralized
social, you throw whatever FI you want
into it. What do you think is the most
important thing to be launching today?
>> So, there there's two things. The first
one uh I want to say about this is that
>> it's clear that the only product market
fit of crypto or or blockchain in
general is DeFi at this point.
>> Okay,
>> you know uh NFTTS uh um we're somewhat
of a fad. There is a use case for them
but
sadly they have not been implemented
correctly yet. So the only thing that
the market truly wants right now is D5
products and I think uh that's that's
being reinforced more and more each day.
Um there's obviously a lot of hype
around AI agents and how AI agents can
integrate with with DeFi, you know, um
Agent Techfi in general. Um I think
we're still a couple ways away from
that, but uh uh I think that's clearly
clearly the the the meta. I think, you
know, VCs are extremely desperate to
invest in in in that sort of solution.
Um but it's a lot of projects have been
over you know, overpromising and under
delivering. So
>> totally. So that's that's the core
issue. But yeah, 100%.
>> Do you think uh the institutions are
here and they're going to save our
networks?
>> Um I never really bought this whole
notion that we were crumbling, you know,
the the archaic uh traditional financial
system. I never really bought that. It
seems more of a a change in in
administration.
>> Okay. you know, um, fundamentally like
the way people work and the way people
behave,
it does come down to incentives. And the
reason why we use a traditional
financial system is because it's good
enough for most people, but there's so
many incumbents there that, you know,
make make actual good products extremely
hard to build, you know, to be be
usable. But in that sense uh um you know
crypto I think DeFi
is catered more towards uh you know
unramping traditional finance at an
extremely fast and global scale that
really isn't.
>> So for example I'm from Mexico um and in
Mexico we have a necessity to send and
receive money from the US. There's a lot
of people in in the US that are uh
Mexicans. They work there and then they
want to send money back to Mexico.
Right? So that's a clear problem that
they have and the way they usually, you
know, did it was sending money through
uh routes like Western Union. Right.
>> Right. Right. But it's
>> hyper predatory.
>> Hyper predatory. It's it's extremely
expensive and it's just not that
efficient. Right. So it's easier to uh
be able to onboard all that capital into
something uh through DeFi and then be
able to send money quicker. So in that
sense like did did we really
revolutionize something or did we just
you know bring the same old
infrastructure that we had before and
then modernize it.
>> So are the fine folks of Mexico starting
to use our blockchain rails to send
remittances between the two countries?
>> Absolutely. Yeah. Of of course they're
starting to and for example companies
like Bitso I think Bitso manages um 10%
of the remnants like coming from the US
to Mexico.
>> Wow. Yeah. Okay. So like that volume is
clearly being captured by crypto
products and um I don't think it just
it's it's going to be limited to to that
you know but but my point is that there
are clear use cases clear market demands
clear needs that people have today and
most of them is not to you know
revolutionize the way I'm going to buy
uh uh labu you know but it it's going to
be for stuff that people are already
having problems today. Um yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Awesome. Um are you going to ETH Mexico
and de Fe this year?
>> Absolutely, man.
>> Absolutely.
>> Are you coming back to Denver next year?
>> Uh
uh I think we'll see. We'll see. We'll
see who who's coming. But yeah, um the
thing is it's it's it's always somewhat
depressing during a bare market, but I
mean it's also inspiring seeing people
still building, you know, regardless of
the conditions. Um but yeah. Yeah, we'll
see. We'll see.
>> For for the fine folks out there who
might be going through their first bare
market, what's the one piece of advice
you have for them?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Don't be a
>> Well, expect expect constant like
eternal growth. Like, you know, things
are going to go down eventually, you
know. Just uh Yeah.
>> Yeah. Don't fret too much about it. Uh I
guess don't eat into like crazy stuff
when there's like incredible market
volatility, but yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Don't be a
>> Yeah. There you go.
>> Thank you for your time, sir. No
worries, brother.